doc/README.md, before:

# Cyphernode

Indirection layer (API) between your applications and Bitcoin-related services.

Your application <-----> Cyphernode

Cyphernode is:

Gatekeeper (TLS, JWT) <-----> Proxy (Cyphernode Core) <-----> Feature Containers

- By default, the only exposed (published) port is 443 (HTTPS) on the Gatekeeper.
- By default, everything else is accessible exclusively within the encrypted overlay network.
- If your system is distributed (customized Cyphernode setup), the overlay network...
  - ...should be doubly encrypted with a VPN or SSH tunnel
  - ...the hosts should be secured and the VPN/SSH tunnel should have limited scope by iptables rules on each host.
- We can have different Bitcoin Nodes for watching and spending, giving the flexibility to have different security models one each.
- Only the Proxy has Bitcoin Node RPC credentials.
- To manually manage the Proxy (and have access to it), one has to gain access to the Docker host servers as a docker user.

## Setting Up

### Installer

We are providing an installer to help you setup Cyphernode.

#### See [Instructions for installation](INSTALL.md) for automatic install instructions

All the Docker images used by Cyphernode have been prebuilt for x86 and ARM (RPi) architectures and are hosted on the Docker hub public registry, Cyphernode repository (https://hub.docker.com/u/cyphernode/).

### Build from sources

However, it is possible for you to build from sources.  In that case, please refer to the files INSTALL-MANUALLY.md and INSTALL-MANUAL-STEPS.md.

#### See [Instructions for manual installation](INSTALL-MANUALLY.md) for manual build and install instructions
#### See [Step-by-step detailed instructions](INSTALL-MANUAL-STEPS.md) for real-world copy-paste standard install instructions

# For Your Information

Current components in Cyphernode:

- Gatekeeper: front door where all requests hit Cyphernode.  Takes care of: TLS, authentication and authorization.
- Proxy: request handler.  Well dispatch authenticated and authorized requests to the right component.  Use a SQLite3 database for its tasks.
- Proxy Cron: scheduler.  Can call the proxy on regular interval for asynchronous tasks like payment notifications on watches, callbacks when OTS files are ready, etc.
- Pycoin: Bitcoin keys and addresses tool.  Used by Cyphernode to derive addresses from an xPub and a derivation path.
- Bitcoin: Bitcoin Core node.  Cyphernode uses a watching wallet for watchers (no funds) and a spending wallet for spending.  Mandatory component, but optionally part of Cyphernode installation, as we can use an already running Bitcoin Core node.
- Lightning: optional.  C-Lightning node.  The LN node will use the Bitcoin node for its tasks.
- OTSclient: optional.  Used to stamp hashes on the Bitcoin blockchain.

Future components:

- Trezor-connect: use a Trezor to authenticate.  Will be used to log into control panel (see next point) and other.
- Control Panel: web control panel, with different functionalities depending on user's group: admin, spender, watcher.
- Grafana: displays stats graphics on Cyphernode use and load.
- PGP: signs anything with your PGP key.
- PSBT: sign transactions using a Coldcard.
- Electrum (Personal) Server: would be part of the installation for your convenience, but not really used by Cyphernode.

## Bitcoin Core Node

If you decide to have a prune Bitcoin Core node, the fee calculation on incoming transactions won't work.  We can't compute the fees on someone else's transactions without having the whole indexed blockchain.

## Lightning Network

Currently, the LN functionalities of Cyphernode are very limited.  Maybe even hard to use.  You can:

- Get information on your LN node: ln_getinfo
- Get a Bitcoin address where to send your funds to be used by your LN node: ln_newaddr
- Create an invoice, so people can send you payment; the burden of creating a channel/route to you is on the payer: ln_create_invoice
- Pay an invoice.  You have to have the invoice and your LN node must already be connected to the network: ln_pay

Basic and crucial functionalities that's missing (you have to manually use lightning-cli on your LN node):

- Be notified when a LN payment is received
- Connect your node to the LN network
- Open/close channels

## Manually test your installation through the Gatekeeper

If you need the authorization header to copy/paste in another tool, put your API ID (id=) and API key (k=) in the following command:

```shell
id="003";h64=$(echo -n "{\"alg\":\"HS256\",\"typ\":\"JWT\"}" | base64);p64=$(echo -n "{\"id\":\"$id\",\"exp\":$((`date +"%s"`+60))}" | base64);k="b9b8d527a1a27af2ad1697db3521f883760c342fc386dbc42c4efbb1a4d5e0af";s=$(echo -n "$h64.$p64" | openssl dgst -hmac "$k" -sha256 -r | cut -sd ' ' -f1);token="$h64.$p64.$s";echo "Bearer $token"
```

Directly using curl on command line, put your API ID (id=) and API key (k=) in the following commands:

```shell
id="001";h64=$(echo -n "{\"alg\":\"HS256\",\"typ\":\"JWT\"}" | base64);p64=$(echo -n "{\"id\":\"$id\",\"exp\":$((`date +"%s"`+10))}" | base64);k="2df1eeea370eacdc5cf7e96c2d82140d1568079a5d4d87006ec8718a98883b36";s=$(echo -n "$h64.$p64" | openssl dgst -hmac "$k" -sha256 -r | cut -sd ' ' -f1);token="$h64.$p64.$s";curl -v -H "Authorization: Bearer $token" -k https://127.0.0.1/getbestblockhash
id="003";h64=$(echo -n "{\"alg\":\"HS256\",\"typ\":\"JWT\"}" | base64);p64=$(echo -n "{\"id\":\"$id\",\"exp\":$((`date +"%s"`+10))}" | base64);k="b9b8d527a1a27af2ad1697db3521f883760c342fc386dbc42c4efbb1a4d5e0af";s=$(echo -n "$h64.$p64" | openssl dgst -hmac "$k" -sha256 -r | cut -sd ' ' -f1);token="$h64.$p64.$s";curl -v -H "Authorization: Bearer $token" -k https://127.0.0.1/getbalance
id="003";h64=$(echo -n "{\"alg\":\"HS256\",\"typ\":\"JWT\"}" | base64);p64=$(echo -n "{\"id\":\"$id\",\"exp\":$((`date +"%s"`+10))}" | base64);k="b9b8d527a1a27af2ad1697db3521f883760c342fc386dbc42c4efbb1a4d5e0af";s=$(echo -n "$h64.$p64" | openssl dgst -hmac "$k" -sha256 -r | cut -sd ' ' -f1);token="$h64.$p64.$s";curl -v -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"hash":"123","callbackUrl":"http://callback"}' -H "Authorization: Bearer $token" -k https://127.0.0.1/ots_stamp
```


## Manually test your installation directly on the Proxy:

```shell
echo "GET /getbestblockinfo" | docker run --rm -i --network=cyphernodenet alpine nc proxy:8888 -
echo "GET /getbalance" | docker run --rm -i --network=cyphernodenet alpine nc proxy:8888 -
echo "GET /getbestblockhash" | docker run --rm -i --network=cyphernodenet alpine nc proxy:8888 -
echo "GET /getblockinfo/00000000a64e0d1ae0c39166f4e8717a672daf3d61bf7bbb41b0f487fcae74d2" | docker run --rm -i --network=cyphernodenet alpine nc proxy:8888 -
echo "GET /ln_getinfo" | docker run --rm -i --network=cyphernodenet alpine nc proxy:8888 -
```

Commit message:

Removed install folder, replaced by cyphernodeconf_docker. Removed LE-companion doc. Updated documentation.

doc/README.md, after:

# Cyphernode

Indirection layer (API) between your applications and Bitcoin-related services.

Your application <-----> Cyphernode

Cyphernode is:

Gatekeeper (TLS, JWT) <-----> Proxy (Cyphernode Core) <-----> Feature Containers

- By default, the only exposed (published) port is 443 (HTTPS) on the Gatekeeper.
- By default, everything else is accessible exclusively within the encrypted overlay network.
- If your system is distributed (customized Cyphernode setup), the overlay network...
  - ...should be doubly encrypted with a VPN or SSH tunnel
  - ...the hosts should be secured and the VPN/SSH tunnel should have limited scope by iptables rules on each host.
- We can have different Bitcoin Nodes for watching and spending, giving the flexibility to have different security models one each.
- Only the Proxy has Bitcoin Node RPC credentials.
- To manually manage the Proxy (and have access to it), one has to gain access to the Docker host servers as a docker user.

## Setting Up

### Installer

We are providing an installer to help you setup Cyphernode.

#### See [Instructions for installation](INSTALL.md) for automatic install instructions

All the Docker images used by Cyphernode have been prebuilt for x86, ARM (RPi) and aarch64 (pine64/NODL) architectures and are hosted on the Docker hub public registry, Cyphernode repository (https://hub.docker.com/u/cyphernode/).

### Build from sources

However, it is possible for you to build from sources.  In that case, please refer to the `build.sh` scripts in each of the repositories used by cyphernode (https://cloud.docker.com/u/cyphernode/repository/list).  See [Instructions for installation](INSTALL.md).

# For Your Information

Current components in Cyphernode:

- Gatekeeper: front door where all requests hit Cyphernode.  Takes care of: TLS, authentication and authorization.
- Proxy: request handler.  Well dispatch authenticated and authorized requests to the right component.  Use a SQLite3 database for its tasks.
- Proxy Cron: scheduler.  Can call the proxy on regular interval for asynchronous tasks like payment notifications on watches, callbacks when OTS files are ready, etc.
- Pycoin: Bitcoin keys and addresses tool.  Used by Cyphernode to derive addresses from an xPub and a derivation path.
- notifier: Handling callbacks used by watchers as well as OTS stamping.
- broker: pub/sub mechanism is taken care by the broker to which all subscribers and publishers should register.
- Bitcoin: Bitcoin Core node.  Cyphernode uses a watching wallet for watchers (no funds) and a spending wallet for spending.  Mandatory component, but optionally part of Cyphernode installation, as we can use an already running Bitcoin Core node.
- Lightning: optional.  C-Lightning node.  The LN node will use the Bitcoin node for its tasks.
- OTSclient: optional.  Used to stamp hashes on the Bitcoin blockchain.

Future components:

- Trezor-connect: use a Trezor to authenticate.  Will be used to log into control panel (see next point) and other.
- Control Panel: web control panel, with different functionalities depending on user's group: admin, spender, watcher.
- Grafana: displays stats graphics on Cyphernode use and load.
- PGP: signs anything with your PGP key.
- PSBT: sign transactions using a Coldcard.
- Electrum (Personal) Server: would be part of the installation for your convenience, but not really used by Cyphernode.

## Bitcoin Core Node

If you decide to have a prune Bitcoin Core node, the fee calculation on incoming transactions won't work.  We can't compute the fees on someone else's transactions without having the whole indexed blockchain.

## Lightning Network

Currently, basic LN functionalities is offered by Cyphernode.  You can:

- Get information on your LN node: ln_getinfo
- Get a Bitcoin address where to send your funds to be used by your LN node: ln_newaddr
- Create an invoice, so people can send you payment; the burden of creating a channel/route to you is on the payer: ln_create_invoice
- Pay an invoice.  You have to have the invoice and your LN node must already be connected to the network: ln_pay
- Decode a BOLT11 string.
- Delete a created invoice to make sure cancelled payments are not accepted.
- Get a previously created invoice.
- Connect + fund: connects to a peer and fund a channel, all in one call.  A callback can be provided to let you know when the channel is ready to use.
- Get connection string: to let your user know how to connect to your LN node.
- Be notified when a LN payment is received

## Manually test your installation through the Gatekeeper

If you need the authorization header to copy/paste in another tool, put your API ID (id=) and API key (k=) in the following command:

```shell
id="003";h64=$(echo -n "{\"alg\":\"HS256\",\"typ\":\"JWT\"}" | base64);p64=$(echo -n "{\"id\":\"$id\",\"exp\":$((`date +"%s"`+60))}" | base64);k="b9b8d527a1a27af2ad1697db3521f883760c342fc386dbc42c4efbb1a4d5e0af";s=$(echo -n "$h64.$p64" | openssl dgst -hmac "$k" -sha256 -r | cut -sd ' ' -f1);token="$h64.$p64.$s";echo "Bearer $token"
```

Directly using curl on command line, put your API ID (id=) and API key (k=) in the following commands:

```shell
id="001";h64=$(echo -n "{\"alg\":\"HS256\",\"typ\":\"JWT\"}" | base64);p64=$(echo -n "{\"id\":\"$id\",\"exp\":$((`date +"%s"`+10))}" | base64);k="2df1eeea370eacdc5cf7e96c2d82140d1568079a5d4d87006ec8718a98883b36";s=$(echo -n "$h64.$p64" | openssl dgst -hmac "$k" -sha256 -r | cut -sd ' ' -f1);token="$h64.$p64.$s";curl -v -H "Authorization: Bearer $token" -k https://127.0.0.1/getbestblockhash
id="003";h64=$(echo -n "{\"alg\":\"HS256\",\"typ\":\"JWT\"}" | base64);p64=$(echo -n "{\"id\":\"$id\",\"exp\":$((`date +"%s"`+10))}" | base64);k="b9b8d527a1a27af2ad1697db3521f883760c342fc386dbc42c4efbb1a4d5e0af";s=$(echo -n "$h64.$p64" | openssl dgst -hmac "$k" -sha256 -r | cut -sd ' ' -f1);token="$h64.$p64.$s";curl -v -H "Authorization: Bearer $token" -k https://127.0.0.1/getbalance
id="003";h64=$(echo -n "{\"alg\":\"HS256\",\"typ\":\"JWT\"}" | base64);p64=$(echo -n "{\"id\":\"$id\",\"exp\":$((`date +"%s"`+10))}" | base64);k="b9b8d527a1a27af2ad1697db3521f883760c342fc386dbc42c4efbb1a4d5e0af";s=$(echo -n "$h64.$p64" | openssl dgst -hmac "$k" -sha256 -r | cut -sd ' ' -f1);token="$h64.$p64.$s";curl -v -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"hash":"123","callbackUrl":"http://callback"}' -H "Authorization: Bearer $token" -k https://127.0.0.1/ots_stamp
```


## Manually test your installation directly on the Proxy:

```shell
echo "GET /getbestblockinfo" | docker run --rm -i --network=cyphernodenet alpine nc proxy:8888 -
echo "GET /getbalance" | docker run --rm -i --network=cyphernodenet alpine nc proxy:8888 -
echo "GET /getbestblockhash" | docker run --rm -i --network=cyphernodenet alpine nc proxy:8888 -
echo "GET /getblockinfo/00000000a64e0d1ae0c39166f4e8717a672daf3d61bf7bbb41b0f487fcae74d2" | docker run --rm -i --network=cyphernodenet alpine nc proxy:8888 -
echo "GET /ln_getinfo" | docker run --rm -i --network=cyphernodenet alpine nc proxy:8888 -
```
